{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22000}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Introduction to Linux\b0\par
Linux is an open-source Unix-like operating system-based family on the Linux kernel, and the OS kernel was first published on 17 September 1991 by Linus Torvalds. Typically, Linux is packaged as the Linux distribution, which contains the supporting libraries and system software and kernel, several of which are offered by the GNU Project. Several Linux distributions use the term "Linux" in the title, but the Free Software Foundation uses the "GNU/Linux" title to focus on the necessity of GNU software, causing a few controversies.\par
\par
Famous Linux distributions are Ubuntu, Fedora Linux, and Debian, the latter of which is composed of several different modifications and distributions, including Xubuntu and Lubuntu. Commercial distributions are SUSE Linux Enterprise and Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Desktop distributions of Linux are windowing systems like Wayland or X11 and desktop environments like KDE Plasma and GNOME.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Originally, Linux was designed for personal computers that were Intel x86 architecture-based, but it has since been moved to more environments than other operating systems.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Including Android, Linux has the biggest installed base of every general-purpose operating system because of the control of the Linux-based Android over smartphones as of May 2022.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}However, Linux is used by just around 2.6% of desktop computers as of November 2022.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Also, Linux executes on many embedded systems, i.e., devices whose OS is typically designed into the firmware and is extremely customized to the system.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It includes spacecraft (Perseverance rover, Dragon crew capsule, and Falcon 9 rocket), automobiles (Toyota, Hyundai, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, and Tesla), televisions (LG and Samsung Smart TVs), video game consoles, smart home devices, automation controls, and routers.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Linux is one of the most outstanding examples of open-source and free software collaboration. The source code may be distributed, modified, and used non-commercially or commercially by everyone under the conditions of its respective licenses, like the GNU GPL (General Public License). For example, the Linux kernel is licensed upon the GPLv2.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Uses of Linux OS\par
\b0 Several quantitative studies of open-source/free software concentrate on topics, such as reliability and market share, with many studies examining Linux specifically. The Linux market is developing, and the Linux OS market size is supposed to see a development of 19.2% by 2027, reaching 15.64 billion dollars, compared to 3.89 billion in 2019. Proponents and analysts attribute the associative Linux success to its freedom, low cost, reliability, and security from vendor lock-in.\par
\b Web servers\par
\b0 W3Cook releases stats that utilize the top 1,000,000 Alexa domains, which estimate that 96.55% of web servers use Linux, 1.73% use Windows, and 1.72% use FreeBSD as of May 2015.\par
\b Laptops and desktops\par
\b0 As of May 2022, the estimated Linux market share is around 2.5% on desktop computers, according to web server statistics. Microsoft Windows include a market share of approximately 75.5%, while macOS has around 14.9%.\par
\b Mobile devices\par
\b0 Android has become the leading OS for smartphones which is Linux kernel-based. In July 2022, 71.9% of smartphones worldwide using the internet used Android. Also, Android is a famous OS for tablets, being liable for more than 60% of table sales as of 2013.\par
\b Film production\par
\b0 Linux has been the preferred platform in the film industry for years. The first big film released on a Linux server was 1997's Titanic. Since then, big studios, including Industrial Light & Magic, Weta Digital, Pixar, and DreamWorks Animation, have relocated to Linux.\par
\b Government use\par
\b0 Linux distros have also got popularity in several national and local governments. Kerala has gone to the mandating extent that every state high school use Linux on their systems. China utilizes Linux exclusively as the OS for its Loongson processor family for achieving technology independence.\par
A few regions have integrated their Linux distribution in Spain, which is extensively used in official and educational institutions. Also, Germany and France have taken steps toward Linux adoption. The Red Star OS of North Korea is based on a Fedora Linux version developed since 2002.\par
\b Architecture of Linux system\par
The Linux operating system's architecture mainly contains some of the components: the Kernel, System Library, Hardware layer, System, and Shell utility.\par
\par
1. Kernel:- The kernel is one of the core section of an operating system. It is responsible for each of the major actions of the Linux OS. This operating system contains distinct types of modules and cooperates with underlying hardware directly. The kernel facilitates required abstraction for hiding details of low-level hardware or application programs to the system. There are some of the important kernel types which are mentioned below:\par
\par
Monolithic Kernel\par
Micro kernels\par
Exo kernels\par
Hybrid kernels\par
2. System Libraries:- These libraries can be specified as some special functions. These are applied for implementing the operating system's functionality and don't need code access rights of the modules of kernel.\par
\par
3. System Utility Programs:- It is responsible for doing specialized level and individual activities.\par
\par
4. Hardware layer:- Linux operating system contains a hardware layer that consists of several peripheral devices like CPU, HDD, and RAM.\par
\par
5. Shell:- It is an interface among the kernel and user. It can afford the services of kernel. It can take commands through the user and runs the functions of the kernel. The shell is available in distinct types of OSes. These operating systems are categorized into two different types, which are the graphical shells and command-line shells.\par
\par
The graphical line shells facilitate the graphical user interface, while the command line shells facilitate the command line interface. Thus, both of these shells implement operations. However, the graphical user interface shells work slower as compared to the command-line interface shells.\b0\par
\b Linux OS Working\b0\par
The Linux operating system follows of standard design that's the key to its several distributions and variations. Every Linux distribution is based on the Linux kernel but can differ based on factors like:\par
\par
Kernel version: Distros can be set up with more recent releases to add new aspects or with previous releases to be more balanced.\par
Kernel modules: It is software that can be unloaded and loaded into the kernel develop functionality without restarting. Often, kernel modules are used for supporting:\par
Device drivers, which utilize code that manages how linked devices work.\par
File system drivers, which utilize code that manages how the kernel operates with distinct file systems.\par
System calls, which utilize code that manages how programs claim services through the kernel.\par
Configuration options: Kernels unified with configuration options configured to add only file system or device drivers are used for a few specialized distributions; for instance, compiling the kernel for any wireless device without wired network device drivers.\par
The kernel is the one thing that every system has in common running Linux. Linux operates by:\par
Booting and loading the Linux kernel.\par
The kernel handles every system output and input once booted. The system is booted, and processes can be initialized.\par
The system can be utilized for processes that contain commands interactively entered by the command line, network server functions, desktop applications, or any program or application as system processes are booted.\par
The user experience can widely vary, relying on how the Linux system is being utilized while the kernel may almost be identical with some compilation differences and divergence for configuration. For example, a few use cases of Linux with distinct user experiences are:\par
\par
Desktop productivity systems, like those utilized by software developers or several other professionals. The workstations of software development may be enhanced for performance, while desktops may be enhanced for the utilization of desktop productivity tools for administrative professionals.\par
Network servers might not even add a command line window for direct access. Remotely, these headless servers are handled by Windows sessions or network terminals. Servers may be utilized by several but should directly be accessed by authorized system admins only.\par
Thin clients let users utilize a rich desktop environment with a lightweight device. It includes Google Chromebooks and Raspberry Pi single-card systems.\par
Linux operates much similar to any GUI-based operating system when using it as a GUI with a desktop environment. Applications and many other resources can be launched by pressing icons, and files can be deleted, copied, or moved using a trackpad or mouse.\par
\par
\b Pros and Cons of Linux OS\par
\par
\f1 Open source: \b0 it is open source\par
\b Reliability: \b0 Linux is treated as a reliable operating system, and it is well-supported with several security patches. Also, Linux is treated as a stable OS, which means it can execute in almost every circumstance. Linux can also handle errors when running unexpected input and software.\par
\b Licensing costs\b0 : Linux has no accurate licensing fees, unlike Apple macOS or Microsoft Windows. While system support is present for a fee from several Linux vendors, the operating system itself is free to use and copy. A few IT organizations have enhanced their savings by moving their server software to Linux from a commercial operating system.\par
\b Backward compatibility: \b0 Linux and many open-source software tend to be frequently updated for functional and security patches while having core functionality. Shell scripts and configurations are likely to operate unchanged even if software updates are used. Generally, Linux and other open-source applications do not alter their operation modes with new versions, unlike economic software vendors that mount new releases of their operating systems with new forms of work.\par
\b Several choices: \b0 Between almost all infinite options, several available distros, and many application options to configure, compile, and run Linux on almost all hardware platforms, it's possible to develop Linux for almost all applications.\par
\par
\b DrawBacks\b0\par
\b Lack of standard\b0 : No standard version is available for Linux, which may be nice to optimize Linux for specific applications, but less so to deploy desktop images and standardized servers. The huge variety of options can convolute support as an outcome.\par
\b Support costs\b0 : Support isn't free, while an organization can freely acquire Linux without licensing fees. Almost all enterprise Linux distributors, such as Red Hat and SUSE, provide support contracts. These license fees can significantly decrease savings depending on the situation.\par
\b Proprietary software\b0 : PC productivity software, such as Microsoft Office, can't be utilized on Linux desktops, and many proprietary software may not be available for Linux platforms.\par
\b Steep learning curve\b0 : Several users battle to learn to use Linux-based applications and Linux desktops.\par
\b Unsupported hardware\b0 : Several hardware manufacturers enable the device drivers of Linux accessible for their products, but several don't.\par
\par
\b Linux Features:\b0\par
\b Portable: \b0 Linux OS can perform different types of hardware and the kernel of Linux supports the installation of any type of hardware environment.\par
\b Open source: \b0 Linux operating system source code is available freely and for enhancing the capability of the Linux OS, several teams are performing in collaboration.\par
\b Multiprogramming: \b0 Linux OS can be defined as a multiprogramming system. It means more than one application can be executed at the same time.\par
\b Multi-user: \b0 Linux OS can also be defined as a multi-user system. It means more than one user can use the resources of the system such as application programs, memory, or RAM at the same time.\par
\b Hierarchical file system: \b0 Linux OS affords a typical file structure where user files or system files are arranged.\par
\b Security\b0 : Linux OS facilitates user security systems with the help of various features of authentication such as controlled access to specific files, password protection, or data encryption.\par
\b Shell: \b0 Linux operating system facilitates a unique interpreter program. This type of program can be applied for executing commands of the operating system. It can be applied to perform various types of tasks such as call application programs and others.\par
}
 